# preprint-servers
Comparative analysis of preprint servers 
Data from Dimensions and Altmetric via CWTS
To counter information, and, by implication, power asymmetries in science, new regional preprint platforms have emerged alongside other innovative scholarly publishing initiatives. These platforms typically seek to transform scientific knowledge flows in two ways. The first is to create new, more accessible venues for scholars from sub-Saharan Africa, MENA, Latin America and South-East Asia – referred to as ‘the scientific periphery’ – to publish their research. The second is to increase the visibility and discoverability of knowledge from the scientific periphery by publishing rapidly, openly and online. These regional initiatives as ‘alternative transregional circuits of publication’ (Collyer, 2018) may have a positive impact on the consolidation of regional research capabilities and may stimulate South–South collaboration. New publishing venues for scientists from the periphery are also, however, expected to ease the entry of science from the periphery into the global science communication network. However, the outcomes of initiatives to connect ‘peripheral’ and ‘hegemonic’ science remain largely underexplored. In other words, little is known about the outcomes of these initiatives in relation to their stated purposes. This paper evaluates by relying on both bibliometric and altmetric data the performance and outcomes of two regional preprint servers, AfricArXiv (Africa) and SciELO Preprints (Latin America) in relation to four other more global and field-specific preprint servers.
